##  super_mediator manual page   -*- mode: text; fill-column: 78 -*-
##

=pod

=begin html

<!--
    Copyright 2012-2023 Carnegie Mellon University
    See license information in LICENSE.txt.
-->
<!--
    @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_BEGIN@
    Super Mediator 2.0.0

    Copyright 2023 Carnegie Mellon University.

    NO WARRANTY. THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
    INSTITUTE MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON
    UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
    AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR
    PURPOSE OR MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF
    THE MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF
    ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
    INFRINGEMENT.

    Licensed under a GNU GPL 2.0-style license, please see LICENSE.txt or
    contact permission@sei.cmu.edu for full terms.

    [DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A] This material has been approved for public
    release and unlimited distribution.  Please see Copyright notice for
    non-US Government use and distribution.

    GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS - Software and Software Documentation
    Contract No.: FA8702-15-D-0002
    Contractor Name: Carnegie Mellon University
    Contractor Address: 4500 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213

    The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform,
    display, or disclose this software are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of
    the Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer
    Software Documentation clause contained in the above identified
    contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown
    above. Any reproduction of the software or portions thereof marked with
    this legend must also reproduce the markings.

    This Software includes and/or makes use of Third-Party Software each
    subject to its own license.

    DM23-2321
    @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_END@
-->

=end html

=head1 NAME

B<super_mediator> - IPFIX Mediator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

     super_mediator   [--config CONFIG_FILE_NAME]
                      [--test-config]
                      [--ipfix-input TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL]
                      [--ipfix-port PORT]
                      [--polling-interval POLL_TIME]
                      [--move-dir PROCESSED_INPUT_DIRECTORY]
                      [--no-locked-files]
                      [--out OUTPUT_SPECIFIER]
                      [--output-mode TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL]
                      [--export-port PORT]
                      [--rotate ROTATE_SECONDS]
                      [--fields FIELD_LIST]
                      [--print-headers]
                      [--no-stats]
		      [--preserve-obdomain]
                      [--rewrite-ssl-certs]
                      [--disable-metadata-export]
                      [--ipsetfile IPSET_FILE]
                      [--sleep MICROSECONDS]
                      [--udp-temp-timeout TIMEOUT_SECONDS]
                      [--log LOG_SPECIFIER]
                      [--log-dir LOG_PATH]
                      [--verbose]
                      [--quiet]
                      [--daemonize]
		      [--pidfile PIDFILE_NAME]
                      [--become-user UNPRIVILEGED_USER]
                      [--become-group UNPRIVILEGED_GROUP]
                      [INPUT_SPECIFIER [INPUT_SPECIFIER ...]]

     super_mediator   --version

     super_mediator   --help

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<super_mediator> is an IPFIX Mediator to be used as a manifold for yaf(1)
IPFIX export data.  It has multiple means of reading and writing IPFIX.
A limited number of options can be specified on the command line.  For
advanced configuration with multiple collectors, multiple exporters,
and filtering, the configuration file super_mediator.conf(1) should be used.
Command line arguments for collection will override collectors defined
in the configuration file. Command line arguments for exporters will be ignored
if a configuration file is provided.

B<super_mediator> supports multiple incoming sources and multiple outgoing
exporters.  It can read from an IPFIX file, watch for files in a given
directory, or collect IPFIX from yaf(1) via TCP or UDP on a given host and
port.  It can export to a single or to rotating IPFIX, CSV, or JSON files and
to a network socket via UDP or TCP.

B<super_mediator> can filter on import and/or export.  Filters can be defined
in the configuration file.

B<super_mediator> is capable of collecting all of YAF Deep Packet Inspection
data (see yafdpi(1)). For advanced configuration of the DPI to CSV output, see
super_mediator.conf(1).  For DNS, the B<super_mediator> can perform
de-duplication on the incoming DNS resource records.  It will cache a key
containing the resource record name (rrname), resource record type (rrtype),
and the resource record value (rrval).  When a resource record is seen matching
this key, the B<super_mediator> will increment the hit count and the last_seen
timestamp associated with the record.  If it is a new record, the record will
be exported. Each record will be exported to the appropriate exporter.  The
text format is:

    first_seen | rrtype | rrname | rrval

(see below for IPFIX template)

Records will be periodically flushed.  The default is to flush a record
from the buffer once it has reached the desired hit count of 5000 or a new
record has not been seen in 5 minutes.  These default behaviors can be
modified in the configuration file.  Similarly, a file can be written upon
flush time.  If this is the case, the text format would be:

    first_seen | last_seen | rrtype | rrname | hitcount | rrval

There is also the option to BASE 64 Encode all DNS domain names in a
text file.  This option can be specified in the configuration file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Configuration File Option

When possible, the configuration file should be used when running
the B<super_mediator>.  However, some command line options were given as a
convenience for quick analysis.

=over 4

=item B<--config> I<CONFIGURATION_FILE>

I<CONFIGURATION_FILE> is the configuration file following the guidelines given
in the B<super_mediator.conf> man page.  If this option is given, most other
command line options are not allowed.

=item B<--test-config>

When given, B<super_mediator> exits after parsing the configuration file.

=back

=head2 Input Options

These options control where B<super_mediator> will get its input.
B<super_mediator> can read packets from a file, directory, or live on a TCP or
UDP port.  By default, if no input options are given, B<super_mediator> reads
an IPFIX stream on standard input.

=over 4

=item I<INPUT_SPECIFIER> [I<INPUT_SPECIFIER> ...]

B<super_mediator> treats any command line values that are not associated with
an option as an I<INPUT_SPECIFIER>.  Zero or more I<INPUT_SPECIFIER>s may be
specified; each is treated as an IPFIX collector, and all specifiers must be
the same type.  If B<--ipfix-input> is given, each I<INPUT_SPECIFIER> is the
hostname or IP Address of the host to listen on.  If B<--polling-interval> or
B<--move-dir> is given, each I<INPUT_SPECIFIER> is a directory that
B<super_mediator> periodically scans for files to process.  If none of these
options are given, the B<super_mediator> assumes each I<INPUT_SPECIFIER> is an
IPFIX file.

=item B<--ipfix-input> I<TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL>

Causes B<super_mediator> to operate as an IPFIX network collector, listening
for connections via the specified protocol I<TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL>, which must
be either B<tcp> or B<udp>.  UDP is not recommended as it is not a reliable
transport protocol and cannot guarantee delivery of messages.  The port to
listen on is specified by the B<--ipfix-port> option and defaults to 18000;
the hostname to listen on must be specified in the I<INPUT_SPECIFIER>.

=item B<--ipfix-port> I<PORT>

Requires the presence of B<--ipfix-input> and specifies the TCP or UDP port
where B<super_mediator> listens for incoming connections.  If not present, the
default port 18000 is used.  The hostname to listen on is specified in the
I<INPUT_SPECIFIER>.

=item B<--polling-interval> I<POLL_TIME>

Causes the I<INPUT_SPECIFIER>(s) to be treated as directory name(s) and tells
B<super_mediator> to process files in the directory(s) every I<POLL_TIME>
seconds.  B<super_mediator> runs forever waiting for files to appear in the
directory.  After processing the incoming files, B<super_mediator> deletes the
files unless a B<--move-dir> is specified.

=item B<--move-dir> I<PROCESSED_INPUT_DIRECTORY>

Causes the I<INPUT_SPECIFIER>(s) to be treated as directory name(s) and tells
B<super_mediator> to process files in the directory(s) periodically.  The
default period is 30 seconds, but may be changed with the
B<--polling-interval> option.  The incoming files are moved to
I<PROCESSED_INPUT_DIRECTORY> after processing.  If B<--polling-interval> is
specified and B<--move-dir> is not, the incoming files are deleted after they
are processed.

=item B<--no-locked-files>

B<Currently unimplemented.> Tells B<super_mediator> to ignore the presence of
lock files and process all files in the incoming directory when either
B<--polling-interval> or B<--move> is specified.  By default,
B<super_mediator> does not read files that are locked, which means they have
the extension ".lock" appended to the end of the filename.  This can be used
if B<super_mediator> is reading from a yaf(1) export directory and yaf(1) is
run with B<--lock>.  This will prevent B<super_mediator> from removing the
files out from under yaf(1).  This does not lock files that the
B<super_mediator> is writing to.  Use the B<super_mediator> configuration file
to enable locking of output files.

=back

=head2 Output Options

These options control where B<super_mediator> will send its output.
B<super_mediator> can write flows to an IPFIX file, text file, or to an IPFIX
collector over TCP or UDP.  By default, if no options are given,
B<super_mediator> writes IPFIX to standard out.

=over 4

=item B<--out> I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER>

I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is an output specifier.  If B<--output-mode> is present,
and set to TCP or UDP, the I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> specifies the hostname or IP
address of the collector to which the flows will be exported.  If
B<--output-mode> is set to TEXT, I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is a filename in which
the flows will be written in pipe-delimited (C<|>) format.  If
B<--output-mode> is set to JSON, I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is a filename in which
the flows will be written as JSON.  Otherwise, I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is a
filename in which flows will be written in IPFIX Format.  The string B<-> may
be used to write to standard output (the default).  If B<--rotate> is present,
I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is the prefix name of each output file to write to.  When
writing to a network socket, B<super_mediator> must be able to make an initial
connection to the I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> for B<super_mediator> to start.  If the
connection is lost after the initial connection, B<super_mediator> will
immediately retry the connection after reporting a warning message to the log.
If the retry is unsuccessful, B<super_mediator> will retry the connection
every 15 seconds until the connection is successful.  Flows will be lost while
the connection is down.

=item B<--output-mode> I<TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL>

If present, causes B<super_mediator> to operate as an IPFIX, TEXT, or JSON
exporter, exporting via the specified protocol I<TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL> to a
collector (e.g rwflowpack, flowcap) named in the I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER>.  Valid
I<TRANSPORT_PROTOCOL> values are B<tcp>, B<udp>, B<text>, and B<json>.  UDP is
not recommended, as it is not a reliable transport protocol and cannot
guarantee delivery of messages.

=item B<--export-port> I<PORT>

If B<--output-mode> is present and set to TCP or UDP, export flows to port
I<PORT>.  If not present, the default port 18001 will be used.  The host to
export to is specified with the B<--out> option.

=item B<--rotate> I<ROTATE_SECONDS>

Causes the I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> to be treated as the B<prefix> of an output
file name.  B<super_mediator> appends a timestamp to the prefix and
periodically closes the output file and opens a new open.  This switch
determines how often that occurs.

=item B<--fields> I<FIELD_LIST>

If present and B<--output-mode=TEXT> is also present, writes only the fields
given in I<FIELD_LIST>. I<FIELD_LIST> is a list of IPFIX element names,
separated by a comma.  The list of acceptable fields is nearly any IPFIX
element.

=item B<--print-headers>

If present for TEXT Exporters, B<super_mediator> writes a header for delimited
flow data.  If files rotate, it writes one header at the top of each flow
data file.

=item B<--no-stats>

If present, B<super_mediator> does not forward yaf(1) process statistics
records or log statistics.  It is possible to configure certain exporters to
process stats while others ignore stats messages.  This must be done with
through the B<super_mediator> configuration file.

=item B<--preserve-obdomain>

If present, B<super_mediator> will not overwrite the observation domain in the
incoming IPFIX records.  If given and the incoming records do not have an
observationDomainId element, the exported records will have a domain of zero.
B<super_mediator>'s default behavior is to copy the observation domain ID from
the incoming IPFIX messages' headers to the records it exports, overwriting
any previous observationDomainId value in the records.

=item B<--rewrite-ssl-certs>

If specified, B<super_mediator> will, for IPFIX exporters, rewrite the
SSL certificate records that are represented in a subTemplateList on
the SSL DPI record (template 51722 (0xca0a)).  The rewriting changes
the structure of template 51723 (0xca0b) and eliminates template 52756
(0xce14).  The new SSL certificate record has explicit information
elements for parts of the certificate's issuer and subject instead of
having data stored in a list of key-value pairs.

=item B<--disable-metadata-export>

If present, B<super_mediator> does not include information element and
template metadata in IPFIX output.

=item B<--ipsetfile> I<IPSET_FILE>

Exits the program due to missing IPset support

=item B<--sleep> I<MICROSECONDS>

If present, B<super_mediator> sleeps for I<MICROSECONDS> between each
call to fBufAppend, which appends the IPFIX messages to the output source.
This is useful if B<super_mediator> is reading an IPFIX file and transmitting
IPFIX over UDP.  B<super_mediator> may send the messages too quickly for the
IPFIX Collector to receive them (possibly dropping messages.)  This option
is only available with one collector and one exporter when executing
B<super_mediator> from the command line.

=item B<--udp-temp-timeout> I<TIMEOUT_SECS>

B<Currently unimplemented.> Set UDP template timeout in seconds if
B<--ipfix-mode> is set to I<UDP>.  As per RFC 5101 recommendations,
B<super_mediator> will attempt to export templates three times within
I<TEMPLATE_SECS>.  The default template timeout period is 600 seconds (10
minutes).

=back

=head2 Logging and Daemon Configuration

=over 4

=item B<--log> I<LOG_SPECIFIER>

Specifies the destination for log messages.  B<LOG_FILE> can be a B<syslog(3)>
facility name, the special value B<stderr> for standard error, or the absolute
path to a file for file logging.  To write messages to rotating files in a
directory, use the B<--log-dir> option.  The default log specifier is
B<stderr>.  The log level can be specified by the B<LOGLEVEL> keyword in the
B<super_mediator> configuration file or by using either B<--verbose> or
B<--quiet>.  The default level is WARNING.

=item B<--log-dir> I<LOG_PATH>

Tells B<super_mediator> to write log messages to files in I<LOG_PATH>.
I<LOG_PATH> must be a complete directory path.  The log files have the form
F<LOG_PATH/sm-YYYYMMDD.log> where I<YYYYMMDD> is the current date.  The log
files are rotated at midnight local time.  When the log files are rotated a
new log is opened, the previous file is closed, and B<gzip(1)> is invoked on
the previous day's log file.  (Old log files will not be removed by
B<super_mediator>.)

=item B<--verbose>

Enables logging of all messages.  The default log level is B<WARNING>.  This
option changes the log level to B<DEBUG> and logs all B<yaf(1)> and
B<super_mediator> process statistics, along with any IO operations.

=item B<--quiet>

Turns off logging completely.  B<super_mediator> will not log errors.

=item B<--daemonize>

Causes B<super_mediator> to become a daemon.

=item B<--pidfile> I<PIDFILE_NAME>

Sets the complete path to the file in which B<super_mediator> writes its
process ID (pid) when running as a daemon.  B<--pid-file> is ignored if
B<--daemon> is not present.

=back

=head2 Privilege Options

These options are used to cause B<super_mediator> to drop privileges when
running as root for live capture purposes.

=over 4

=item B<--become-user> I<UNPRIVILEGED_USER>

Tells B<super_mediator> to drop its privileges to I<UNPRIVILEGED_USER> after
starting.  Using B<--become-user> requires B<super_mediator> to be run as root
or setuid root. This option will cause all files written by B<super_mediator>
to be owned by the user I<UNPRIVILEGED_USER> and the user's primary group; use
B<--become-group> as well to change the group B<super_mediator> runs as for
output purposes.

We highly recommend the use of this option, especially in production
environments, for security purposes.

=item B<--become-group> I<UNPRIVILEGED_GROUP>

Tells B<super_mediator> to change its privileges to I<UNPRIVILEGED_GROUP>
after starting.  The B<--become-group> option allows changing the group from
the default of the user given in B<--become-user>.  This option has no effect
if given without the B<--become-user> option as well.

=back

=head2 Help Options

=over 4

=item B<--version>

Instructs B<super_mediator> to print its version number and the optional
features it supports to the standard output and then exit.

=item B<--help>

Causes B<super_mediator> to print a brief summary of its command line options
and then exit.

=back

=head2 IPFIX Export Templates

The following IPFIX fields are exported by the B<super_mediator>.  DPI
information will be exported in the same format as received by yaf(1), with
the exception of the de-duplicated DNS records.  Any statistics option
messages will also be formatted in the same format as they are received.

=head3 FLOW_ONLY Record

Some fields are only exported if they are non-zero and were enabled in B<yaf>.
B<super_mediator> exports many variations of the following template.  The
following list contains all of the possible elements that could exist
in the FLOW_ONLY record.  Reverse elements are only exported if
reversePacketTotalCount or reversePacketDeltaCount is nonzero.

    flowStartMilliseconds, IE 152, 8 octets, unsigned

    flowEndMilliseconds, IE 153, 8 octets, unsigned

    octetTotalCount, IE 85, 8 octets, unsigned

    reverseOctetTotalCount Reverse IE 85 (PEN 29305), 8 octets, unsigned

    packetTotalcount, IE 86, 8 octets, unsigned

    reversePacketTotalcount, Reverse IE 86 (PEN 29305), 8 octets, unsigned

    octetDeltaCount, IE 1, 8 octets, unsigned

    reverseOctetDeltaCount, reverse IE 1 (PEN 29305), 8 octets, unsigned

    packetDeltaCount, IE 2, 8 octets, unsigned

    reversePacketDeltaCount, reverse IE 2 (PEN 29305), 8 octets, unsigned

    sourceIPv6Address, IE 27, 16 octets, unsigned

    destinationIPv6Address, IE 28, 16 octets, unsigned

    sourceIPv4Address, IE 8, 4 octets, unsigned

    destinationIPv4Address, IE 12, 4 octets, unsigned

    sourceTransportPort, IE 7, 2 octets, unsigned

    destinationTransportPort, IE 11, 2 octets, unsigned

    flowAttributes, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 40, 2 octets, unsigned

    reverseFlowAttributes, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16424, 2 octets, unsigned

    protocolIdentifier, IE 4, 1 octet, unsigned

    flowEndReason, IE 136, 1 octet, unsigned

    silkAppLabel, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 33, 2 octets, unsigned

    reverseFlowDeltaMilliseconds, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 21, 4 octets, unsigned

    tcpSequenceNumber, IE 184, 4 octets, unsigned

    reverseTcpSequenceNumber, Reverse IE 184 (PEN 29305), 4 octets, unsigned

    initialTCPFlags, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 14, 1 octet, unsigned

    unionTCPFlags, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 15, 1 octet, unsigned

    reverseInitialTCPFlags, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16398, 1 octet, unsigned

    reverseUnionTCPFlags, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16399, 1 octet, unsigned

    vlanId, IE 58, 2 octets, unsigned

    reverseVlanId, Reverse IE 58 (PEN 29305), 2 octets, unsigned

    ipClassOfService, IE 5, 1 octet, unsigned

    reverseIpClassOfService, Reverse IE 15 (PEN 29305), 1 octet, unsigned

    mplsTopLabelStackSection, IE 70, 3 octets, unsigned

    mplsLabelStackSection2, IE 71, 3 octets, unsigned

    mplsLabelStackSection3, IE 72, 3 octets, unsigned

    observationDomainId, IE 149, 4 octets, unsigned

        The observation domain ID of the yaf(1) process that
        generated the flow.

    subTemplateMultiList, IE 293, Variable Length

=head3 DNS De-duplicated Record

    flowStartMilliseconds, IE 152, 8 octets, unsigned

        The time in milliseconds of when the DNS resource record was
        first seen.

    flowEndMilliseconds, IE 153, 8 octets, unsigned

        The time in milliseconds of the last record seen by the
        B<super_mediator>. This is only exported if the
        B<super_mediator> is configured to LAST_SEEN.

    sourceIPv4Address, IE 8, 4 octets, unsigned

        The IPv4 Address found in a DNS A Record.

    dnsTTL, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 199, 4 octets, unsigned

        The maximum TTL seen for the aggregated DNS records.
        This is only exported if the B<super_mediator> is
        configured to LAST_SEEN.

    dnsRRType, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 175, 2 octets, unsigned

        The type of Resource Record.  This corresponds
        with the QTYPE filed in the DNS Question Section
        or the TYP field in the DNS Resource Record Section.

    smDedupHitCount, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 929, 2 octets, unsigned

        The number of times the B<super_mediator> saw
        this record in the FLUSH TIMEOUT period.
        This is only exported if the B<super_mediator> is
        configured to LAST_SEEN.

    dnsName, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 179, variable length

        A DNS Response Name.  This field corresponds
        with the NAME field in the DNS Resource Record Section.

    smDNSData, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 927, variable length

       A DNS Resource Record Data Element.  This field
       corresponds with the RDATA in the DNS Resource
       Record Section.  For CNAME records, this will be the
       canonical name. For NS Records, this will be the
       name server name.  For AAAA records, this will be an
       IPv6 Address, etc.

    observationDomainName IE 300, variable length

       This field is populated if the DEDUP_CONFIG block was
       configured with B<ADD_EXPORTER_NAME>
       or DNS_DEDUP was configured with a B<VLAN_MAP> or B<OBID_MAP>.
       See super_mediator.conf(1) for more information on MAPS.

=head3 Tombstone Options Template

B<Super_mediator> will forward and can optionally generate tombstone records
using IPFIX Options Template Records.  These records are intended to allow the
analysis of the time it takes for records to be processed by each tool (e.g.,
YAF, Super Mediator, SiLK) in your environment.  Each tombstone record generated
by  B<super_mediator> consists of six information elements: the observation
domain ID set by the B<--observation-domain> argument, the exporting process ID
which is the PID of the YAF process, a user- settable tombstone ID, a
sequentially increasing  "tombstoneID" for each record, the timestamp of the
record's creation, and a subTemplateList of the time each program interacted
with the tombstone record. With ideal randomness and/or proper user arguments,
the 4 IDs taken together should uniquely specify a record. Tombstone record
generation is not on by default and can be turned on using the  TOMBSTONE_CONFIG
section of the config file. Tombstone Records are only  sent/forwarded to
exporters configured to receive stats records.

The following Information Elements will be exported:

    observationDomainId, IE 149, 4 octets, unsigned

       The (user-set) observation domain of the generating sensor.

    exportingProcessId, IE 144, 4 octets, unsigned

       The PID of the generating sensor.

    certToolTombstoneId, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 550, 4 octets, unsigned

       A sequentially increasing identification number unique to each tombstone
       record in a run of a given program.

    certToolExporterConfiguredId, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 551, 2 octets, unsigned

       An identification number for the record that is user specifiable at
       runtime and shared across all records in a run of the given program.

    observationTimeSeconds, IE 322, 4 octets, dateTimeSeconds

       The UNIX timestamp of when the record was created.

    certToolTombstoneAccessList, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 554, variable length, subTemplateList

       A subTemplateList consisting of Tombstone Access Templates (see below)
       that specify when each program that supports tombstone time-stamping
       interacted with the tombstone record.

=head3 Tombstone Access Template

The following two Information Elements will be exported as a template within the
subTemplateList of a Tombstone Options Template:

    certToolId, CERT (PEN 6871) IE 553, 4 octets, unsigned

       The identification number of the program that interacted with the record.
       B<super_mediator> has and ID of 2.

    observationTimeSeconds, IE 322, 4 octets, dateTimeSeconds

       The UNIX timestamp of when the program interacted with the record.

=head1 EXAMPLES

To run super_mediator with the configuration file:

C<super_mediator -c /usr/local/etc/super_mediator.conf>

To read a yaf(1) file and write delimited text to the standard output:

C<super_mediator -o - -m text yaffile.yaf>

To listen for connections from yaf(1) via TCP and write to rotating text files:

C<super_mediator --ipfix-port 18000 --ipfix-input TCP --out /tmp/mediator --rotate 120 --log /tmp/mediator.log -v localhost>

To listen for connections from yaf(1) via UDP and send output to a rwflowpack process running on TCP port 18001:

C<super_mediator -p 18000 --ipfix-input UDP -o localhost -m TCP --export-port 18001>

To only print the time and 5-tuple for each flow to standard output:

C<super_mediator -o - -m TEXT --fields=flowStartMilliseconds,flowEndMilliseconds,sourceIPv4Address,destinationIPv4Address,sourceTransportPort,destinationTransportPort,protocolIdentifier ./myyaffile.yaf>


=head1 KNOWN ISSUES

B<super_mediator> will not create new file directories.  All output
directories must exist before you start B<super_mediator>.

B<yaf> presently encodes the ICMP type and code information into the
destinationTransportPort information element for ICMP and ICMP6 flows.
B<super_mediator> running in TEXT output mode writes the type in the
sourceTransportPort field and the ICMP code in the destinationTransportPort
field.

=head1 AUTHORS

Emily Sarneso and the CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering
Team E<lt>http://www.cert.org/netsaE<gt>.  Bug reports and feature requests
may be sent via email to E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

yaf(1) and the following IETF
Internet RFCs: Specification of the IPFIX Protocol for Exchange of IP
Traffic Flow Information B<RFC 5101>, Information Model for IP Flow Information
Export B<RFC 5102>, Export of Structured Data in B<RFC 6313>.

=cut
